>> You've been learning to
make a deeper connection with
your heart and
increase coherence.
Now let's explore
what could be possible
as more and more people make a
connection with their heart's
intelligence and then come
together in cooperative ways.
It's an adventure
discovering the power
of the heart of humanity.
Rather than separation
and discord,
we can create a heart-based
movement of increased heart
qualities, such as
compassion, empathy,
and connection, leading to
more coherence in society.
Heart connection is on
the rise because people
are yearning for it.
It is true that there
are competing agendas
in today's world.
Yet, there is plenty
of hopeful news
to consider in the midst
of the stress and chaos.
It's a process of a new
world birthing itself
in the midst of the old one.
Awareness is shifting.
People are changing.
Society is transforming.
What we call social
coherence is on the rise.
>> Social coherence has to do
with the relationships amongst
the members of any group.
So this could be a
family, could be a work
team, a whole company, or even
cities and even countries,
ultimately.
Coherence has to do
with how harmonious
are the relationships
amongst the parts.
So in this case, say, a family
would be the whole family.
How well are the members in
that family or that work team
getting along with each other?
Ultimately, it really relates
to the emotional connections
between people.
And this allows for good
communication and cohesion
of the collective action at
the family or group level
when we're more coherent.
What's really interesting
from a research perspective
is there's multiple different
types of studies now
that are indicating that
when people are in a group
and they form emotional
relationships that this
actually create an
energetic field of sorts
amongst that group.
Which is really
interesting because it
means that information can
be shared amongst the group
members at an unseen
and unconscious level.
>> We were 54 people.
And we met to set a
new Brazilian record,
building a formation
during freefall.
And this usually
takes about a week.
So we spent a few days
together making a few attempts.
And all the athletes have all
the skills to actually make
the record happen.
But in the first couple
of days of attempts
we were not quite getting
together in freefall.
There was a little bit
of rush and some stress,
and people were not
really getting in sync.
>> In the third day, I was
feeling that this kind of feel.
We weren't in sync.
So we were ready to go, we
were going to the plane,
and then I called everybody.
Hey, hey, hey, hey.
Stop.
And then all the
people look to me.
What's going on?
Come on, come on.
And everybody stands
in front of me.
And then I use one technique
that we learned here
with HeartMath, Quick Coherence,
for five or six minutes.
And then when I felt the
field, and that field
was kind of quiet.
Then I felt, OK,
we are ready to go.
Coincidence or not, on
that jump we made it.
>> We broke the record.
>> It's amazing.
>> Yeah, and the cool thing
about it is that we could feel
it in the air.
The quietness.
And when we landed,
like, a bunch of people
they didn't really
know what had happened.
But they said to us, wow,
we could feel the quietness.
And we were at ease.
>> In flow.
>>Every thing was
kind of slow-mo.
It's perfect.
>> And those electromagnetic
fields being created,
produced by the heart, when you
choose to get into your purpose
and create a coherent signal,
it changes the environment.
And so what happens
is, if someone
who is sitting and having
a really bad day, or you
might notice that they're super
sad or they're feeling dense,
is your literal broadcast of
the heart can help uplift them.
And what happens is it
creates this beacon of hope.
It creates almost
a sense for others,
like, hey, this is possible.
>> We need to rely on each
other now more than ever.
We need to open our
hearts to each other.
We need to approach
these situations
with everyone's collective
interest in mind,
not just our own
as the individual,
not just our own as a part
of a group or even a nation.
We are a collective
consciousness,
and we need to start
acting like it.
And that is where I find hope.
>> Coming from a 30-year
law enforcement background,
I've seen every kind of type
of violence there is out there.
And I would love to see a world
with less or no violence in it.
I know that may sound
like a pipe dream,
but I think it's possible.
If we commit to
changing ourselves,
have that emotional
self-responsibility.
And I think that will ripple out
to the world in a profound way
to help see those
changes come about.
>> So the potential
of social coherence.
Once we understand the
physiology for the individual,
for the family,
for the workplace,
and we begin to use techniques
that actually help us activate
that coherent communication,
that help us shift and lift
each other's vibes,
we can do that
and see what outcomes
we create together
that can be not only
harmonious, but solve
a lot of miscommunications
in a lot of social problems.
It's worth playing with.
>> Social coherence enables a
collective heart intelligence
that helps raise
the vibratory rate
of the individual's and the
group's energetic field.
Social coherence is
happening more and more.
As groups of people make
efforts to collectively open
their hearts, put aside
negative attitudes and judgments
of others, to work cooperatively
for the benefit of the whole,
it adds to a momentum of
positive change, which
is what will help society
to reshape itself.
You contribute to creating
more social coherence
with each act of kindness you
show to others or to yourself.
You often do it informally
without knowing it,
simply through the positive ways
you show up and lead your life.
You do it through
the heart qualities
that radiate through your
heart's electromagnetic field
into the environment.
As more of us cultivate a
positive energetic field
of the heart within
and around us,
in our families, workplaces,
communities, and world,
we regenerate our life and
others physically, mentally,
emotionally, and spiritually.
We're going to experience
one more HeartMath technique
called the Heart
Lock-In technique,
designed to help amplify the
power of your heart qualities
and intentions and the
radiation from your heart's
energetic field.
>> Close your eyes and
ease into your heart.
Focus your attention in
the area of the heart.
Now imagine your breath
is flowing in and out
through your heart
or chest area,
and breathe a little slower
and deeper than usual
in an even rhythm.
Do that now, if you would.
Now activate and sustain
a regenerative feeling,
such as appreciation,
care, or compassion.
Perhaps you can recall
a memory when you really
felt good inside,
when you really
felt connected with your heart.
Maybe it was being in a
special place with someone
you really love and care about.
Maybe imagine yourself right
now with a pet you love,
or in a very special
spot in nature.
Now radiate that renewing
feeling to yourself and others.
Just let the feeling expand and
radiate to every single cell
in your body.
Imagine it's renewing
and energizing you.
Feel like you're
sitting in the warm sun,
if there's a warmth
radiating from your heart.
See this warmth permeating
all the different cells
in your body, permeating your
mental and emotional nature,
providing a sense of renewal
from the warmth and beauty
of your heart.
Let's radiate the
feeling outward.
You might want to start by just
radiating care and compassion
into the environment
that you're in right now,
filling that environment with
a warm, energetic feeling
from your heart.
Now radiate it out into the
community that you're in.
Or perhaps radiate heart
energy to a person,
someone you care about,
someone you know who
needs more heart in their life.
Now expand it and radiate
the feeling to the world,
to humanity itself,
or to an area
on the planet in need of more
of your heart's compassion.
Just feel a gentle
radiation coming out
from the core of
your heart, streaming
through your being
and the environment,
and then out to humanity.
If your mind wanders, it's OK.
Just gently bring your
attention back to the heart
and try to stay
with the feeling.
As you practice this,
eventually the heart energy
you're radiating will lock into
a flow towards your highest
intention.
Take the feeling you have
now forward into the future.
Try for a moment to disengage
from the chaos you often
see in society and
think about this.
What if many more
people came to realize
the transforming potentials
available within the heart
of who they truly are?
That what they have
sensed about heart
is real, that by connecting
with their heart's guidance
they can better
manage their emotions,
experience more compassion,
appreciation, love,
and connectedness.
What if increasingly
people unleashed
the coherent alignment of heart,
mind, nervous system, emotions,
and spirit to
access their heart's
intuitive guidance
for navigating
their daily interactions?
Think about that.
What would our world be?
Do you see a more
socially coherent world?